README.md, before:

# android-junit5 [![Travis Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/mannodermaus/android-junit5.svg?branch=master)][travisci]

![Logo](.images/logo.png)

A Gradle plugin that allows for the execution of [JUnit 5][junit5gh] tests in Android environments using **Android Gradle Plugin 3.0.0 or later.**

## Why a separate plugin?

The JUnit Platform team provides a Gradle plugin for running JUnit 5 on the JVM. However,
that plugin is tailored to the needs of a "purely Java" application, and doesn't work in
the context of the multi-variant world that we live in on Android. As a result, `android-junit5` was born.

This plugin configures a `junitPlatformTest` task for each registered build variant of a project.
Furthermore, it automatically attaches both the Jupiter & Vintage Engines
during the execution phase of your tests as well, so there's very little configuration
necessary to get your project up-and-running on the JUnit Platform.

Instructions on how to write JUnit 5 tests can be found [in their User Guide][junit5ug].
Furthermore, this repository provides a small showcase of the functionality provided by JUnit 5 [here][sampletests].

## Download

```groovy
buildscript {
  dependencies {
    classpath "de.mannodermaus.gradle.plugins:android-junit5:1.0.30"
  }
}
```

Snapshots of the development version are available through [Sonatype's `snapshots` repository][sonatyperepo].

## Setup

```groovy
apply plugin: "com.android.application"
apply plugin: "de.mannodermaus.android-junit5"

dependencies {
  // (Required) Writing and executing Unit Tests on the JUnit Platform.
  testImplementation junit5.unitTests()

  // (Optional) If you need "Parameterized Tests".
  testImplementation junit5.parameterized()
    
  // (Optional) For running tests inside Android Studio 3
  // Please refer to the "Android Studio Workarounds" section for more insight on this.
  testCompileOnly junit5.unitTestsRuntime()

  // (Optional) Writing and executing Instrumented Tests with the JUnit Platform Runner.
  //
  // IMPORTANT:
  // By declaring this dependency, you have to use a minSdkVersion
  // of at least 26, since the nature of JUnit 5 relies on APIs that aren't
  // available on Android devices before then.
  // Additionally, you are required to explicitly enable support for instrumented tests in the
  // "junitPlatform" configuration closure (see the section below for details).
  androidTestImplementation junit5.instrumentationTests()
}
```

## Configuration

The plugin extends your module's `android.testOptions` with more options, wrapped in a container called `junitPlatform`.
Inside it, you can use [all properties available through the default JUnit 5 Gradle plugin][junit5config].
Additionally, there are a few more parameters that allow for more customization of the JUnit Platform
in your Android project. These are detailed below, alongside their default values:

```groovy
android.testOptions {
  // Configuration closure added by the plugin;
  // all configurable parameters related to JUnit 5 can be found here
  junitPlatform {
    // The JUnit Jupiter dependency version to use
    jupiterVersion "5.0.3"

    // The JUnit Vintage Engine dependency version to use
    vintageVersion "4.12.2"

    // Options related to running unit tests with JUnit 5.
    unitTests {
      // Whether or not JUnit 5 test tasks should be affected by
      // JVM Arguments, System Properties & Environment Variables
      // declared through "unitTests.all" closures
      applyDefaultTestOptions true
    }

    // Options related to running instrumented tests with JUnit 5.
    // This is an incubating feature which utilizes the backwards-compatibility
    // of the JUnit Platform in order to enhance the default Test Instrumentation Runner
    // with new power. However, because of their experimental nature and steep minSdkVersion requirement,
    // they are turned off by default. If you choose to enable them, you also have to declare
    // the library dependency in your androidTest scope. Please refer to the "Setup"
    // section for more details.
    instrumentationTests {
      enabled false

      // The Android-Instrumentation-Test dependency version to use
      version "0.1.1"
    }

    // Configuration of companion tasks for JaCoCo Reports,
    // associated with each JUnit 5 task generated by the plugin.
    // Just like the companion tasks themselves, these properties
    // will only have an effect if your module declares the "jacoco" plugin as well.
    // For each of the available report types, you can toggle the availability
    // and destination folders that they write to.
    jacocoOptions {
      // Additional exclusion rules for Code Coverage Reports -
      // by default, R.class & BuildConfig.class are excluded.
      excludedClasses += []
      excludedSources += []
      xml {
        enabled true
        destination project.file()
      }
      html {
        enabled true
        destination project.file()
      }
      csv {
        enabled true
        destination project.file()
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Android Studio Workarounds

All versions up to **Android Studio 3.1 Canary 6** are built
on a version of IntelliJ IDEA that depends on outdated JUnit 5 APIs.
Therefore, your tests will fail with an Exception similar to the following when you try to
launch your tests from inside the IDE (using an *Android JUnit* Run Configuration):

```
Exception in thread "main" java.lang.NoSuchMethodError: org.junit.platform.launcher.Launcher.execute(Lorg/junit/platform/launcher/LauncherDiscoveryRequest;)V
	at com.intellij.junit5.JUnit5IdeaTestRunner.startRunnerWithArgs(JUnit5IdeaTestRunner.java:42)
	...
```

To work around this, there is a separate dependency you can add to the *test* scope
of your project in Android Studio 3. It provides its own copy of the JUnit 5 Runtime
provided by a more recent build of IntelliJ, overriding the one embedded in Android Studio.

To use this, add the following line alongside the other `junit5` dependencies:

```groovy
dependencies {
  testCompileOnly junit5.unitTestsRuntime()
}
```

## Licenses

#### android-junit5-embedded-runtime:

```
Copyright 2000-2016 JetBrains s.r.o.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
```

See also the [full License text](android-junit5-embedded-runtime/LICENSE).

#### Everything else:

```
Copyright 2017-2018 Marcel Schnelle

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
```

See also the [full License text](LICENSE).



 [junit5gh]: https://github.com/junit-team/junit5
 [junit5ug]: https://junit.org/junit5/docs/current/user-guide
 [junit5config]: http://junit.org/junit5/docs/current/user-guide/#running-tests-build-gradle-junit-configure
 [travisci]: https://travis-ci.org/mannodermaus/android-junit5
 [as2issue]: https://github.com/mannodermaus/android-junit5/issues/19
 [jacoco]: http://www.eclemma.org/jacoco
 [sonatyperepo]: https://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/snapshots/de/mannodermaus/gradle/plugins
 [sampletests]: sample/src/test

Commit message:

Add initial Gradle 4.6 Support (#63)
* Update wrapper to Gradle 4.6
* Expose "jvmArgs", "systemProperties" and "environment" facade methods directly on the common Unit Test interface.
* Remove most unused stuff from JUnit5UnitTestRunAll class. 
* Add two new methods to the common interface, to determine Run All task at runtime ("isRunAllTask()") and access to the remaining JavaForkOptions available only to the actual
debug/release test tasks ("javaForkOptions()", returning Optional)
* Add a remark about minimum req. Gradle version to the README

README.md, after:

# android-junit5 [![Travis Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/mannodermaus/android-junit5.svg?branch=master)][travisci]

![Logo](.images/logo.png)

A Gradle plugin that allows for the execution of [JUnit 5][junit5gh] tests in Android environments using **Android Gradle Plugin 3.0.0 or later.**

## Why a separate plugin?

The JUnit Platform team provides a Gradle plugin for running JUnit 5 on the JVM. However,
that plugin is tailored to the needs of a "purely Java" application, and doesn't work in
the context of the multi-variant world that we live in on Android. As a result, `android-junit5` was born.

This plugin configures a `junitPlatformTest` task for each registered build variant of a project.
Furthermore, it automatically attaches both the Jupiter & Vintage Engines
during the execution phase of your tests as well, so there's very little configuration
necessary to get your project up-and-running on the JUnit Platform.

Instructions on how to write JUnit 5 tests can be found [in their User Guide][junit5ug].
Furthermore, this repository provides a small showcase of the functionality provided by JUnit 5 [here][sampletests].

## Download

```groovy
buildscript {
  dependencies {
    classpath "de.mannodermaus.gradle.plugins:android-junit5:1.0.30"
  }
}
```

Snapshots of the development version are available through [Sonatype's `snapshots` repository][sonatyperepo].

## Setup

```groovy
apply plugin: "com.android.application"
apply plugin: "de.mannodermaus.android-junit5"

dependencies {
  // (Required) Writing and executing Unit Tests on the JUnit Platform.
  testImplementation junit5.unitTests()

  // (Optional) If you need "Parameterized Tests".
  testImplementation junit5.parameterized()
    
  // (Optional) For running tests inside Android Studio 3
  // Please refer to the "Android Studio Workarounds" section for more insight on this.
  testCompileOnly junit5.unitTestsRuntime()

  // (Optional) Writing and executing Instrumented Tests with the JUnit Platform Runner.
  //
  // IMPORTANT:
  // By declaring this dependency, you have to use a minSdkVersion
  // of at least 26, since the nature of JUnit 5 relies on APIs that aren't
  // available on Android devices before then.
  // Additionally, you are required to explicitly enable support for instrumented tests in the
  // "junitPlatform" configuration closure (see the section below for details).
  androidTestImplementation junit5.instrumentationTests()
}
```

## Configuration

The plugin extends your module's `android.testOptions` with more options, wrapped in a container called `junitPlatform`.
Inside it, you can use [all properties available through the default JUnit 5 Gradle plugin][junit5config].
Additionally, there are a few more parameters that allow for more customization of the JUnit Platform
in your Android project. These are detailed below, alongside their default values:

```groovy
android.testOptions {
  // Configuration closure added by the plugin;
  // all configurable parameters related to JUnit 5 can be found here
  junitPlatform {
    // The JUnit Jupiter dependency version to use
    jupiterVersion "5.0.3"

    // The JUnit Vintage Engine dependency version to use
    vintageVersion "4.12.2"

    // Options related to running unit tests with JUnit 5.
    unitTests {
      // Whether or not JUnit 5 test tasks should be affected by
      // JVM Arguments, System Properties & Environment Variables
      // declared through "unitTests.all" closures
      applyDefaultTestOptions true
    }

    // Options related to running instrumented tests with JUnit 5.
    // This is an incubating feature which utilizes the backwards-compatibility
    // of the JUnit Platform in order to enhance the default Test Instrumentation Runner
    // with new power. However, because of their experimental nature and steep minSdkVersion requirement,
    // they are turned off by default. If you choose to enable them, you also have to declare
    // the library dependency in your androidTest scope. Please refer to the "Setup"
    // section for more details.
    instrumentationTests {
      enabled false

      // The Android-Instrumentation-Test dependency version to use
      version "0.1.1"
    }

    // Configuration of companion tasks for JaCoCo Reports,
    // associated with each JUnit 5 task generated by the plugin.
    // Just like the companion tasks themselves, these properties
    // will only have an effect if your module declares the "jacoco" plugin as well.
    // For each of the available report types, you can toggle the availability
    // and destination folders that they write to.
    jacocoOptions {
      // Additional exclusion rules for Code Coverage Reports -
      // by default, R.class & BuildConfig.class are excluded.
      excludedClasses += []
      excludedSources += []
      xml {
        enabled true
        destination project.file()
      }
      html {
        enabled true
        destination project.file()
      }
      csv {
        enabled true
        destination project.file()
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Android Studio Workarounds

All versions up to **Android Studio 3.1 Canary 6** are built
on a version of IntelliJ IDEA that depends on outdated JUnit 5 APIs.
Therefore, your tests will fail with an Exception similar to the following when you try to
launch your tests from inside the IDE (using an *Android JUnit* Run Configuration):

```
Exception in thread "main" java.lang.NoSuchMethodError: org.junit.platform.launcher.Launcher.execute(Lorg/junit/platform/launcher/LauncherDiscoveryRequest;)V
	at com.intellij.junit5.JUnit5IdeaTestRunner.startRunnerWithArgs(JUnit5IdeaTestRunner.java:42)
	...
```

To work around this, there is a separate dependency you can add to the *test* scope
of your project in Android Studio 3. It provides its own copy of the JUnit 5 Runtime
provided by a more recent build of IntelliJ, overriding the one embedded in Android Studio.

To use this, add the following line alongside the other `junit5` dependencies:

```groovy
dependencies {
  testCompileOnly junit5.unitTestsRuntime()
}
```

## Gradle Compatibility

The plugin's minimum required version of Gradle has increased over time to maximize its leverage with new APIs and performance.
The chart describes the evolution of this requirement. If you can't use the latest version of this plugin due to your
project's Gradle version, please refer to the following table to find the corresponding plugin that works for you.

|Plugin Version|Minimum Gradle Version|
|---|---|
|1.0.30|2.5|
|1.0.31|4.3|

## Licenses

#### android-junit5-embedded-runtime:

```
Copyright 2000-2016 JetBrains s.r.o.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
```

See also the [full License text](android-junit5-embedded-runtime/LICENSE).

#### Everything else:

```
Copyright 2017-2018 Marcel Schnelle

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
```

See also the [full License text](LICENSE).



 [junit5gh]: https://github.com/junit-team/junit5
 [junit5ug]: https://junit.org/junit5/docs/current/user-guide
 [junit5config]: http://junit.org/junit5/docs/current/user-guide/#running-tests-build-gradle-junit-configure
 [travisci]: https://travis-ci.org/mannodermaus/android-junit5
 [as2issue]: https://github.com/mannodermaus/android-junit5/issues/19
 [jacoco]: http://www.eclemma.org/jacoco
 [sonatyperepo]: https://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/snapshots/de/mannodermaus/gradle/plugins
 [sampletests]: sample/src/test
